# BuLink&Status
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/BPP9XM96lZ0
#### Description: 
Hello CS50!

This is my final project description.
As soon as I finished the last problem set, I dived into learning how to create a web app in a canonical way. My friend in need has been ChatGPT, as I "consulted" it in order to chose a project structure that most likely programers would use in the "real world". I got myself into a steep learning curve, starting with how to use a regular IDE like VS Code, how to create a virtual environment (but what is a virtual environment, what is this?, what is that?, what does it do? what's the logic behid it? etc.), how to import libraries/modules to how to use ORM (SQLAlchemy), how to use forms, and how to structure files in a modular way so it's easier to work with them. 
   I created BuLink in order to centralize data for my small digital marketing agency. This version that I presented is not final and it will probably be continually updated. I don't think it would've made sense to present it in the more final, customized form, since there would've been terms and fields that would only make sense to me. 
   This project has an "auth" folder that handles authentification routes, forms and database models. The __init__.py creates a blueprint that it's then "plugged in" the root __init__.py where the the app is initialised. There I used libraries like python-dotenv that lets me retrieve variables from an .env file, where I wrote my Flask SECRET KEY that signs session cookies for security. Of course, there are deeper levels of understanding those concepts and I've yet to understand all of them at a deeper level. I also used the flask_migrate to keep track of my database changes and change them whenever I change my models. I found out that LoginManager, once configured, makes the flask routes easier to code and keeps track of user's sessions. I used UserMixin in my User db.model. That gives makes it easier to know if a certain user is logged in and retreive it's unique id. I used Flask-WTF extension in order to validate if the forms were submited (inside my routes logic). WTForms were also used as they also help you write more verbous code inside the routes even though you have to take the time to implement them.
   I used a layout HTML, where I imported my stylesheets (styles.css and bootstrap) alongside other layout elements. Jinja was used to implement forms in my html.
   I ran/debugged the app by running run.py.
   I've yet to learn in more detail all the technologies that I used in my final project. It's a steep learning curve because I wanted to get directly into how things are actually done in real projects (If you take chatGTP's word for it). This course has been an interesting experience. I'm going to finish it up by describing my project's actual features, where's probably going to be headed and then stop abruptly:
   This project is meant to be a tool for my digital marketing firm that centralizes information about projects and collaborators. It also has a notes area where each user can write it's TODO's or a reminder to see once they log in later. Each user can add, delete, or edit collaborators and projects. In future iterations there will probably be information regarding pricing and so the website will also be used as a tool to calculate the desired pricing for different services and also calculate taxes so that we'll have a better overview at the whole business. Future updated include easier contact solutions for collaborators like "mailto" for the mail field. I want to keep it as simple as possible while maintaining the desired data fields.
   I did not memorise most of the syntax I used, I can write some of it without looking it up but I do have a pretty good understanding of most of it. With more practice one will be less dependend looking syntax up, maybe. The code submitted is not the cleanest and some of it lack description 😔. It will be updated sometime in the future, maybe.😄
Have a wonderful day! THIS WAS CS50!🤩